# Handling pushback in code reviews



Sometimes a developer will push back on a code review. Either they will disagree
with your suggestion or they will complain that you are being too strict in
general.

## Who is right? {#who_is_right}

When a developer disagrees with your suggestion, first take a moment to consider
if they are correct. Often, they are closer to the code than you are, and so
they might really have a better insight about certain aspects of it. Does their
argument make sense? Does it make sense from a code health perspective? If so,
let them know that they are right and let the issue drop.

However, developers are not always right. In this case the reviewer should
further explain why they believe that their suggestion is correct. A good
explanation demonstrates both an understanding of the developer's reply, and
additional information about why the change is being requested.

In particular, when the reviewer believes their suggestion will improve code
health, they should continue to advocate for the change, if they believe the
resulting code quality improvement justifies the additional work requested.
**Improving code health tends to happen in small steps.**

Sometimes it takes a few rounds of explaining a suggestion before it really
sinks in. Just make sure to always stay [polite](comments.md#courtesy) and let
the developer know that you *hear* what they're saying, you just don't *agree*.

## Upsetting Developers {#upsetting_developers}

Reviewers sometimes believe that the developer will be upset if the reviewer
insists on an improvement. Sometimes developers do become upset, but it is
usually brief and they become very thankful later that you helped them improve
the quality of their code. Usually, if you are [polite](comments.md#courtesy) in
your comments, developers actually don't become upset at all, and the worry is
just in the reviewer's mind. Upsets are usually more about
[the way comments are written](comments.md#courtesy) than about the reviewer's
insistence on code quality.

## Cleaning It Up Later {#later}

A common source of push back is that developers (understandably) want to get
things done. They don't want to go through another round of review just to get
this PR in. So they say they will clean something up in a later PR, and thus you
should LGTM *this* PR now. Some developers are very good about this, and will
immediately write a follow-up PR that fixes the issue. However, experience shows
that as more time passes after a developer writes the original PR, the less
likely this clean up is to happen. In fact, usually unless the developer does
the clean up *immediately* after the present PR, it never happens. This isn't
because developers are irresponsible, but because they have a lot of work to do
and the cleanup gets lost or forgotten in the press of other work. Thus, it is
usually best to insist that the developer clean up their PR *now*, before the
code is in the codebase and "done." Letting people "clean things up later" is a
common way for codebases to degenerate.

If a PR introduces new complexity, it must be cleaned up before submission
unless it is an [emergency](../emergencies.md). If the PR exposes surrounding
problems and they can't be addressed right now, the developer should file a bug
for the cleanup and assign it to themselves so that it doesn't get lost. They
can optionally also write a TODO comment in the code that references the filed
bug.

## Resolving Conflicts {#conflicts}

If you are following all of the above but you still encounter a conflict between
yourself and a developer that can't be resolved, see
[The Standard of Code Review](standard.md) for guidelines and principles that
can help resolve the conflict.
